---
title:      Using Jenkins Pipeline for CI - Part 2
layout:     post
category:   Tutorial
tags: 	    [jenkins, ci]
#feature:   /assets/img/1_tsunami_udp_data_transfer.svg
---

In previous post, I have discussed on setting up Jenkins and Jenkins user SSH key configuration. In this post I will discuss on setting up master-save relation between Jenkins Master server and Jenkins Slave server. Moreover, credential management in Jenkins will be also illustrated.
# Need

1. Jenkins Master Server (Linux)
2. Jenkins Slave Server (Linux)
3. App server (Another Linux Server)
4. GitHub Account

# Configure Jenkins Slave Server

Since each task in Jenkins application is run as jenkins user in the system so in order to communicate with other slave servers there must be jenkins user for running a task on behalf of Jenkins Master. In a nutshell, every Jenkins slave server must need a jenkins user for distributed builds. Now login to Jenkins slave server and install java. Java installing commands  can be found from the previous post of this series. Next, create jenkins user using following commands

```shell
ubuntu@jenkins-slave:~$ sudo useradd -m -d /var/lib/jenkins jenkins -s /bin/bash
ubuntu@jenkins-slave:~$ sudo mkdir -p /var/lib/jenkins
ubuntu@jenkins-slave:~$ sudo su - jenkins
jenkins@jenkins-slave:~$ ssh-keygen -t rsa -b 4096
jenkins@jenkins-slave:~$ touch .ssh/authorized_keys
jenkins@jenkins-slave:~$ exit
```

Above command will create a jenkins user with SSH keypair in Jenkins slave. There is an additional file called `authorized_keys` in .ssh directory. In this file we will paste the public key of Jenkins Master server. This will allow Jenkins Master to connect with Jenkins Slave over SSH. So now, collect the SSH public key of Jenkins Master server.

```shell
ubuntu@jenkins-master:~$ sudo su - jenkins
jenkins@jenkins-master:~$ cat .ssh/id_rsa.pub
jenkins@jenkins-master:~$ exit
```

Now copy the SSH public key of Jenkins Master Server and then paste this key in `authorized_keys` file of Jenkins Slave server. If you are using AWS, then make sure that SSH inbound rule is allowed in Jenkins Slave security group to allow SSH from Jenkins Master. Better you allow the private IP of EC2 instance in SSH inbound rule.

```shell
ubuntu@jenkins-slave:~$ sudo su - jenkins
jenkins@jenkins-slave:~$ vim .ssh/authorized_keys #paste the key here then save and quit
jenkins@jenkins-slave:~$ exit
```

Now test SSH connection from Jenkins Master server. The following command is run as jenkins user in the server.

```shell
ubuntu@jenkins-master:~$ sudo -u jenkins ssh jenkins@JENKINS_SLAVE_SERVER_IP
```

Now add this slave node from Jenkins application. To implement this, login to Jenkins at http://your_server_ip:8080 and provide username/password.
